so there's this guy that I was coaching
he was you know like a incredibly
successful human being he built like a
like a multiple billion dollar company
and when it came to his marriage he just
didn't believe that he could you know
change the marriage and I said to him
like so what is it that makes you think
that you could like oh I I can build a
10 billion doll8 billion doll company
but you can't like fix a relationship
like how how does that mindset get in
there and he I mean clearly didn't have
an answer for it but it allowed him to
see like oh wait this is ridiculous the
fact that I I I don't think that I can
shift or change this relationship and
it's the most critical thing if you're
going to start working on the
relationship is to actually have belief
and faith that there's change that's
possible if you don't then you'll be
undermining yourself the whole time just
just yesterday I was hanging out um
watching my daughter's volleyball game
and I watch like they were ahead and
then they were behind and I watched the
entire team their shoulders slumped
they're like oh we're not going to be
able to do this and they just got worse
and worse and worse and worse they
didn't remember that they were at one
point like going in the right direction
and all all they and the father next to
me is like they're never going to win
like that and you know it like you if
you've watched Sports you've seen this
and you see where the mindset changes it
doesn't like you just know that there's
loss on the horizon and so it's the same
thing in a relationship and so the thing
thing about a relationship that's
important or about trying to do anything
is the way that the brain works is that
we have something gosh I think it's like
a the habenula and it's basically an all
vertebrae and it and it prevents us from
failing over and over and over again so
let's say you're a bear and you fought
for rights to like mate with another
bear and you lost you don't want to like
go and get your butt kicked again and
again and again or if you keep on going
to this one part of this forest and you
eat this mushroom you get sick you won't
don't want to do it again and again it's
that part of your brain and it's the
thing that makes us like when we're
trying to diet and then we like have
that piece of chocolate cake we're like
ah [__] it I failed and then like you
just ah just eat chocolate cake every
day that's the part of the brain and so
you need to know that going into the
relationship and instead of having it
like I'm going to try this and if it
doesn't work then it's over you need to
think about it as like oh here are the
10 20 experiments that I'm going to do
working with the relationship and it's
much better if it's together right like
if both people are saying hey let's work
on this relationship and that's what we
want to do then great then you both have
it you both have the iterations so that
you're never failing you're just trying
the next thing trying the next thing
that's going to work for you if you're
in a situation where you're like oh my
boyfriend or a girlfriend doesn't want
to work on the relationship with me like
that's the conversation you have to have
like if they don't want to work on
making a better relationship and you
want a better relationship it might not
be a match like that conversation has
got to be had because working on a
relationship on your own is actually an
incredibly effective important thing to
do as far as your own personal growth
but it's not going to make the
relationship better unless both people
want a better relationship meaning that
you can work on how you want to be with
them how you want to listen how you want
to fight all the things that you can do
and then the next relationship ship
you're going to be in you're going to be
better at that next
relationship but what's not going to
happen is like if one person's like
resistant to having a better
relationship you can't change another
human being that way like they have to
want it you can you know try for a while
say this is how I want to show up and
they might be inspired and join you but
eventually like you have to let them be
them and you be you and if there's not
that hey let's work on this relationship
together then you've got to make a
choice do I want to stay in a
relationship ship that is like this
because they don't want to make it any
better they don't want to iterate they
don't want to try so as a matter of fact
when I say to people they're like oh
should I get married to a person one of
the things that I'll ask is like are you
both willing to work and
change you know yourselves and in the
relationship so that it gets better and
better and better because if you don't
have that agreement
upfront you know the chances of success
are not
great so the most important thing is
that you think you can do it and that
the two of you are in agreement about
how to move forward and the experiments
and setting up those experiments in
advance so that you can't fail so it's
just we've tried that that didn't work
for us because we're these kinds of two
people so we're going to try this other
thing and then you go through this list
of experiments and I guarantee you by
the time the list of experiments is done
you will absolutely be in a different
place than when it started they don't
have to work even but you will have
learned about yourself you will have
learned about each other you will learn
things where you can create new
experiments that will work and it's just
like one over the other and if you're
really interested in experiments we have
a whole bunch of stuff on experiments
that you can like figure out how to do
great experiments and there's a podcast
and stuff you can listen to
[Music]